---
date: 2018-09-27
path: /note/2018-09-27/
title: "The Courage to Speak Out About Assault"
postType: note
---

A common criticism I've heard of Christine Blasey Ford amid the Kavanaugh hearings, as well as other women speaking about their sexual assaults, is they're "doing it for attention." It's not the most _common_ idiotic dismissal, but is the most idiotic.

If these women just "wanted attention," the easier choice is being the simple sex object many men want them to be.

* They'd dress themselves up for men they don't know.
* They'd avoid saying anything too intelligent or opinionated to offend men with fragile egos.
* They'd put up with men catcalling her to humiliate her and exert power, doing nothing but smiling and waving.
* They'd prioritize a man's pleasure over her own, even men she barely knows. Even, and especially, men who'd get physically violen they didn't get the pleasure they felt entitled too.

This is the way much of society wants women to act, and would gladly give women attention for it. Attention without the public shaming, personal attacks, and death threats. Attention met with that condescending "thank god you're not like all those _other_ women obsessed with that feminism garbage," and a pat on the head.

The fact that women like Professor Ford have known this all their lives, yet speak up against their assaulters, shows how brave they are. It's easier to fit into the silent, sex object role American society carved out for them. But it damn sure won't make things better.
